what's up everyone it is wade patterson
i am passionate about impactful
communication and you have just landed
on video number
three of my eight part series on how to
launch a podcast
and in this video i'm going to talk to
you about the equipment
that you need to launch a podcast i want
to start off by saying
that the barrier to entry to just simply
launch a podcast
you don't need any fancy equipment you
can literally record
audio on your phone and take those files
and upload them directly
to a podcast syndication site such as
anchor
and you can have your very own podcast
but one thing you want to remember with
podcasting
unlike video you only have
the sound the sound that the audience is
listening to
that's all they have and if the audio
isn't
at a pretty good level the audience
might be
unforgiving and not want to listen to
an episode maybe your content is so
great that you've gripped that audience
and they will put up with the poor audio
but if you have smooth sounding audio it
is so
much more likely that your audience will
stay with you and be delighted
to listen to episodes another thing i
want to mention for all of you who are
planning
on interviewing other people as part of
your podcast
you might be wondering well what if the
other person
doesn't have great audio equipment one
of the theories on podcasting is that
the audience will be forgiving as long
as the host's audio
sounds good if you think about it like
the radio stations
oftentimes you have people calling in on
their phones or from a landline or from
their cell phone and
the reception's kind of spotty and it
sounds tinny
but the audience still listens because
the host microphone is so
smooth and they almost expect that the
guest won't have the same level of audio
equipment
so it's okay if your guest isn't set up
with great equipment
but it's pretty important that you are
if you want to keep your audience
engaged
i'm going to have some links in this
video description some of them will be
affiliate links some of them
won't regardless these are pieces of
equipment that have really helped
me along the journey in the last video
on preparation
video number two i talked a little bit
about
some of the work i have done podcasting
podcasting for the re max hustle podcast
and also show me the crypto and in both
cases
i have used audio equipment that is
pretty similar to what you're looking at
right now so let's start off with the
microphone itself
it is good to use an xlr microphone i
have seen podcasts done with
microphones that are usb such as the
yeti blue is a really popular one
and the sound quality on that is pretty
good
however sometimes there are issues with
usb
microphones especially if they're
plugged directly
into the computer sometimes you almost
get that humming sound coming through
the mic
that was one issue that i ran into and
with
an xlr microphone i use the audio
technica
2035 on that you are running it through
a
focusrite amp and then that is a usb
connection
into the computer and it doesn't have
any issues like that the sound quality
sounds great
doesn't it sound pretty good sounds good
right yeah
that xlr microphone is a smooth
sound so if you're going to be
interviewing people in person you might
want to get
two of these microphones each with a
microphone stand by the way
all of the equipment i'm going to talk
about today is probably around a
thousand dollars canadian
and that's going at a pretty high level
of audio quality
so there are cheaper options like i said
like i said you can do it for free
off of your phone if you want but this
is a way to get the audio quality to a
certain level
the next thing you might want to
consider getting is a pop
filter so when we talk our peas
pizza pop bob burger
so peas and bees those words they
sound quite harsh in the microphone and
if you don't have something like a pop
filter that helps
filter that out it's a lot of work in
the post-production and the editing side
of things
to bring those sounds down so a pop
filter like this
really helps eliminate that and makes
the audio sound much more smooth
it clamps right on to your microphone
stand and then you can adjust with the
arm here
and place it wherever you want in front
of your microphone so i have the
microphone i have the microphone stand
again this is
basic right from amazon or many
retailers will have basic microphone
stands you've got the pop filter and as
i mentioned before the microphone is
going
in to a focusrite two xlr
input one usb output
now the thing to know one of the common
ones that you come across
when it comes to focusrite on amazon
will only allow you to plug in
one xlr microphone which is fine if it's
just you who's going to be podcasting or
if you're going to be podcasting with
people over the internet
but if you are planning those in-person
interviews
make sure that there are two xlr mic
inputs i didn't mention the cord as well
you need an xlr
cord here as well of course to attach
from the microphone
to your focusrite and make sure it has
two that you can be able to plug in if
you are doing
in-person interviews so that audio
equipment plugs right into the computer
if i'm doing an in-person interview i
use adobe audition
so of course the adobe suite there is a
cost a subscription cost to that
again there are other programs that can
help you do this
you can use audacity for recording audio
there's vlc there's quicktime there's
many different
options that range in price i use adobe
audition because i like the tools that
it gives me for editing
the audio on a podcast the next thing
you want which i'm not wearing right now
is you want some over-the-ear
headphones this really helps especially
when you
are interviewing someone in person it's
going to give you the sound
that the audience will be hearing that
is very clear so you can notice if
there's a problem with the recording
it doesn't work it's not acceptable if
you're interviewing someone to not
be using headphones because you're going
to have
their sound coming through your computer
speaker which may then come back through
the microphone
and cause all sorts of issues on our
show show me the crypto
i have a co-host and we are both talking
and we're both
interviewing the person and so we have
to have
headphones with a little headphone
splitter plugged in
to make sure that we are hearing the
audio from the guest
otherwise that could be coming into both
of our microphone
that is some of the base level equipment
for podcasting
i do have some lighting here right now
as well and so for those of you who are
wondering about
starting a youtube series and you simply
want the audio
to be the secondary part where you can
also launch a podcast
i love the falcon eyes curvable
bendable lights i will have some links
down below as well
i have a couple of lights on me right
now behind me is an rgb
light that you can change the color so
it's a few other things if you want to
step up your game if you're interviewing
someone and you want some cool light
behind you
and you want to make sure that you're
lit well there are some options there as
well
if you were trying to do this on a
shoestring budget i don't want to
discourage you because you don't have to
spend a thousand dollars to start a
podcast
but i simply want to give you the
information because
it is important to know that the
audience will expect a certain level of
quality from a podcast
and that can be accomplished with other
microphones as well
but this is the microphone setup i use
and we have gotten some compliments
about the sound of the audio in our
podcast
hopefully you can listen to it right now
and appreciate
that this microphone puts out pretty
good sound i hope
that this video was helpful like i say
if it was make sure that you check out
the other videos in the series and if
you're watching this early and there
aren't the other videos yet for that
eight part series
then subscribe and hit that notification
bell so you
are informed when the next videos things
like
how do you conduct a great interview how
do you write a script how do you
syndicate your podcast
all of those things you want to find out
for the future so make sure and check
those out
otherwise they will be in the playlist
as part of this video
thanks so much for watching this video
and i hope you enjoy
the others in the series on how you
launch a podcast